ah life without smartphones seems
impossible
talking to friends likes youtube movies
photos games we love all the stuff they
provide
but we're so into our phones that we
don't notice the bad signs
short attention spans poor work capacity
and stress
but i've got a solution do you sometimes
feel guilty for being lazy all day
it might seem like you've worked for
several hours but still haven't really
done anything
perhaps you urgently need to complete an
important task
but you deliberately put it off or you
can't focus
if this sounds familiar it's probably
not your fault
but your smartphones well that plus your
brain
and the unique substance inside called
dopamine
technically it's not smartphones that
draw our attention so much
but dopamine it's released in the brain
every time you feel happy
dopamine gives you feelings of
satisfaction when you meet up with your
close friends
read an interesting book watch your
favorite movie or eat a delicious piece
of cake
every time dopamine is at work unlike in
the past
we now have a source of dopamine that's
always at our fingertips
our phones just think about it you post
a photo
on instagram and wait for likes waiting
for likes gives you a little
satisfaction
and getting likes means even more
the same goes for getting messages from
friends you feel happier in seconds
evolution has made us constantly want to
connect with other people
we need socialization and social media
meets this need perfectly
so smartphones not only help to produce
more dopamine
they also fulfill evolutionary needs
that may sound cool
but it's not as good as you think having
to do
any serious tasks can scare you because
the brain is used to experiencing
satisfaction
rather than stress that's why there's a
growing number of people
around the world who are afraid to talk
on the phone
texting is easy you don't have to answer
and you have time to think about what
you're going to say
but when the phone rings we have to make
an effort
and this effort worries us imagine
you're writing a report for work
it's boring your brain tells you this
isn't fun at all
let's pull out our phone and see what's
happening you know it's not a good idea
because you need to finish your work but
your desire for fleeting satisfaction
is much stronger than your rational mind
you unlock your phone
and it gets all your attention for a few
minutes
you scroll through your news feed and
look at some memes and photos of your
friends
your brain analyzes a huge amount of
useless information
using up some of its energy now that
you've checked your phone
you can go back to work but it turns out
to be harder to do than it was ten
minutes ago
because you used your energy looking at
social media
you make an incredible effort and start
working then your brain speaks up again
boring and it can go on like this all
day
so you turn off your phone and put it in
another room
it seems that nothing can interfere with
your work now
but there's another problem think about
it
how many actions do you perform on your
phone in five minutes
you can read several posts comment on
videos
change a song on the music player and
record a voice message to your friend
you've got lots of other things to do
but these ones are so much easier and
more interesting
and they make you feel happy plus
they're so quick that you want more
your phone trains you to constantly want
new information
which makes it difficult to focus on
important things for a long time
so you could end up working for as
little as a minute
before you want something new and you
instinctively grab your
smartphone according to research a
goldfish can focus on one thing longer
than
a young person with a smartphone they
let you access
any information you want and this has
ruined our concentration
how many times have you checked or
wanted to check your phone already while
watching this video
hey how do you think that makes me feel
unappreciated so just think about this
when you get distracted by your
smartphone you're just
wasting time the hours will pass and
you'll have done
almost nothing nada zippo
and because you feel bad about it you go
back to your phone to distract yourself
some more
do you want to be more productive the
solution simple
focus on one task finish it and move on
to the next one
but also consider this if you really try
you can get the same kind of
satisfaction from work as you do from
your smartphone
try a dopamine diet don't touch your
phone
at all for at least a few hours and
don't go on social media on your
computer or tablet
after a few minutes sure you'll be bored
but don't grab your smartphone
start working instead when your brain
doesn't get its usual dose of dopamine
it'll do better with what it has work
your brain doesn't have a choice now any
work is better than boredom
and after you've finished you'll feel
good
at this point allow yourself to check
your phone for a little bit
this is your reward then put your phone
away
and start working again soon your brain
will get used to receiving a reward
only after doing some work and this will
make you actually
want to work doesn't this sound like dog
training
exactly do something specific for
a reward and it works but you can take
things
even further when you've finished your
work open a book or learn a few foreign
words
instead of pulling out your phone of
course this is difficult to do
but you'll notice that your mood
improves the world becomes more
interesting and you'll feel that you can
do anything
if you still can't stop wasting time on
your phone
then do it gradually disable
notifications from certain apps
then delete unwanted games and social
media apps
do this slowly over a month think of it
as smartphone rehabilitation
you're going to the ranch with dr phil
and when your desire to look at your
phone weekends
go for a walk or to any place where
there's no internet
you need one to two days of life without
a smartphone to feel free
of course social media isn't always bad
it can help you connect with people and
achieve great success
are you an artist subscribe to the
channel of a more famous
artist to study and learn from them do
you like music
social media is your main distributor a
smartphone can become
a really helpful assistant but only if
you can see where the line is
between self-development and
self-deception